README.md, before:

# React JS Best Practices

making react js easier with best practice at one place. 


- [installation](#installation)
- [tips and tricks](#tips-and-tricks)
- [import and exports components](#import-and-exports-components)
- [import and exports files and links ](#import-and-exports-files-and-links)
- [destructuring props in react](#destructuring-props-in-react)
- [destructuring props in react](#destructuring-props-in-react)


## installation 

Although react js need some time for installation so you can use [vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/) instead of installing react directly. it will save lot of your time and provide more feature along with.

```js
npm create vite@latest

```
## tips and tricks

- Create a good folder-structure
- Keep your key prop unique across your whole app
- don't use inline-styles
- use functional components (like arrow-functions)
- maintain a proper import structure (third-party imports first --> internal imports below)
- Maintain a structured import order
- format your code before committing

## import and exports components

First we will create file for adding what we want to export `index.js/ts/jsx` in components folder.

```javascript
//export your component as index.js/ts/jsx file.

export { default as ChannelCard } from "./ChannelCard";
export { default as VideoCard } from "./VideoCard";
export { default as ChannelDetail } from "./ChannelDetail";
export { default as Feed } from "./Feed";

//import from your component as index.js/ts/jsx file.

import { ChannelCard, VideoCard, ChannelDetail, Feed } from "./";
```

## import and exports files and links

First we will create file for adding what we want to export `utils/contant.js/ts/jsx` for components.

```javascript
import MusicNoteIcon from "@mui/icons-material/MusicNote";
import HomeIcon from "@mui/icons-material/Home";
import CodeIcon from "@mui/icons-material/Code";
import OndemandVideoIcon from "@mui/icons-material/OndemandVideo";
import SportsEsportsIcon from "@mui/icons-material/SportsEsports";

export const logo = "https://i.ibb.co/s9Qys2j/logo.png";

export const categories = [
  { name: "New", icon: <HomeIcon /> },
  { name: "JS Mastery", icon: <CodeIcon /> },
  { name: "Coding", icon: <CodeIcon /> },
  { name: "ReactJS", icon: <CodeIcon /> },
  { name: "NextJS", icon: <CodeIcon /> },
];

export const demoThumbnailUrl = "https://i.ibb.co/G2L2Gwp/API-Course.png";
export const demoChannelUrl = "/channel/UCmXmlB4-HJytD7wek0Uo97A";
export const demoVideoUrl = "/video/GDa8kZLNhJ4";

//import from your component as utils/constant.js/ts/jsx file.

import {
  demoThumbnailUrl,
  demoVideoUrl,
  demoVideoTitle,
  demoChannelUrl,
  demoChannelTitle,
} from "../utils/constant";
```

## destructuring props in react

there are many ways for destructuring props in react js we will explore only few usefull methods thats easy to understand/deal with.

```javascript

//Props without destructuring - function recieve props as parameter 

function Product(props) {
    return (
      <div>
        <img src={props.img} alt="products" />
        <h4>{props.name}</h4>
        <p>{props.description}</p>
        <h4>{props.price}</h4>
      </div>
    );
}

```
1 - destructuring within the body of the function - function recieve props as parameter

```javascript

export default Product

//Destructuring within the body of the function - function recieve props as parameter

function Product = (props) => {
//First Step: Destructuring within the body of the function
    const { img, name, desc, price} = props;
    return (
      <div>
  		<img src={img} alt="products" />
        <h4>{name}</h4>
        <p>{description}</p>
        <h4>{price}</h4>
      </div>
    );
}

export default Product
```
2 - destructuring within function's parameter

```javascript
//First Step: Destructuring within function's parameter
function Product = ({ img, name, desc, price}) => {
    return (
      <div>
  		<img src={img} alt="products" />
        <h4>{name}</h4>
        <p>{description}</p>
        <h4>{price}</h4>
      </div>
    );
}

export default Product
```
using props values from product functuion

```javascript
<Product
img="https://ng.jumia.is/unsafe/fit-in/300x300/filters:fill(white)/product/82/6142201/1.jpg?2933"
name="Cyxus"
desc="Non-Slip Fitness Leisure Running Sneakers"
price="$29"
/>
<Product
img="https://ng.jumia.is/unsafe/fit-in/300x300/filters:fill(white)/product/01/241417/1.jpg?6747"
name="Vitike"
desc="Latest Men Sneakers -Black"
price="$100"
/>
<Product
img="https://ng.jumia.is/unsafe/fit-in/300x300/filters:fill(white)/product/06/4410121/1.jpg?4437"
name="Aomei"
desc="Men's Trend Casual Sports Shoe"
price="$40"
/>
```

## destructuring props in react

there are many ways for destructuring props in react js we will explore only few usefull methods thats easy to understand/deal with.

errors are expected if you find one report it to the author.

Commit message:

Requirements : react js pre requisites

README.md, after:

# React JS Best Practices

making react js easier with best practice at one place. 


- [first requirement](#first-requirement)
- [installation](#installation)
- [tips and tricks](#tips-and-tricks)
- [import and exports components](#import-and-exports-components)
- [import and exports files and links ](#import-and-exports-files-and-links)
- [destructuring props in react](#destructuring-props-in-react)
- [destructuring props in react](#destructuring-props-in-react)


## first requirement

Although react js is Javascript based frontend libarary you have to learn the logic and structure of js. but there are some pre requirement for the libarary to learn theses are includes only basics of `html`, `css`, `dom`,`es6`, `node` and `npm`. although these are requirements you should have basic understanding of these and not needed to **master** them all at once.

## installation 

Although react js need some time for installation so you can use [vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/) instead of installing react directly. it will save lot of your time and provide more feature along with.

```js
npm create vite@latest

```
## tips and tricks

- Create a good folder-structure
- Keep your key prop unique across your whole app
- don't use inline-styles
- use functional components (like arrow-functions)
- maintain a proper import structure (third-party imports first --> internal imports below)
- Maintain a structured import order
- format your code before committing

## import and exports components

First we will create file for adding what we want to export `index.js/ts/jsx` in components folder.

```javascript
//export your component as index.js/ts/jsx file.

export { default as ChannelCard } from "./ChannelCard";
export { default as VideoCard } from "./VideoCard";
export { default as ChannelDetail } from "./ChannelDetail";
export { default as Feed } from "./Feed";

//import from your component as index.js/ts/jsx file.

import { ChannelCard, VideoCard, ChannelDetail, Feed } from "./";
```

## import and exports files and links

First we will create file for adding what we want to export `utils/contant.js/ts/jsx` for components.

```javascript
import MusicNoteIcon from "@mui/icons-material/MusicNote";
import HomeIcon from "@mui/icons-material/Home";
import CodeIcon from "@mui/icons-material/Code";
import OndemandVideoIcon from "@mui/icons-material/OndemandVideo";
import SportsEsportsIcon from "@mui/icons-material/SportsEsports";

export const logo = "https://i.ibb.co/s9Qys2j/logo.png";

export const categories = [
  { name: "New", icon: <HomeIcon /> },
  { name: "JS Mastery", icon: <CodeIcon /> },
  { name: "Coding", icon: <CodeIcon /> },
  { name: "ReactJS", icon: <CodeIcon /> },
  { name: "NextJS", icon: <CodeIcon /> },
];

export const demoThumbnailUrl = "https://i.ibb.co/G2L2Gwp/API-Course.png";
export const demoChannelUrl = "/channel/UCmXmlB4-HJytD7wek0Uo97A";
export const demoVideoUrl = "/video/GDa8kZLNhJ4";

//import from your component as utils/constant.js/ts/jsx file.

import {
  demoThumbnailUrl,
  demoVideoUrl,
  demoVideoTitle,
  demoChannelUrl,
  demoChannelTitle,
} from "../utils/constant";
```

## destructuring props in react

there are many ways for destructuring props in react js we will explore only few usefull methods thats easy to understand/deal with.

```javascript

//Props without destructuring - function recieve props as parameter 

function Product(props) {
    return (
      <div>
        <img src={props.img} alt="products" />
        <h4>{props.name}</h4>
        <p>{props.description}</p>
        <h4>{props.price}</h4>
      </div>
    );
}

```
1 - destructuring within the body of the function - function recieve props as parameter

```javascript

export default Product

//Destructuring within the body of the function - function recieve props as parameter

function Product = (props) => {
//First Step: Destructuring within the body of the function
    const { img, name, desc, price} = props;
    return (
      <div>
  		<img src={img} alt="products" />
        <h4>{name}</h4>
        <p>{description}</p>
        <h4>{price}</h4>
      </div>
    );
}

export default Product
```
2 - destructuring within function's parameter

```javascript
//First Step: Destructuring within function's parameter
function Product = ({ img, name, desc, price}) => {
    return (
      <div>
  		<img src={img} alt="products" />
        <h4>{name}</h4>
        <p>{description}</p>
        <h4>{price}</h4>
      </div>
    );
}

export default Product
```
using props values from product functuion

```javascript
<Product
img="https://ng.jumia.is/unsafe/fit-in/300x300/filters:fill(white)/product/82/6142201/1.jpg?2933"
name="Cyxus"
desc="Non-Slip Fitness Leisure Running Sneakers"
price="$29"
/>
<Product
img="https://ng.jumia.is/unsafe/fit-in/300x300/filters:fill(white)/product/01/241417/1.jpg?6747"
name="Vitike"
desc="Latest Men Sneakers -Black"
price="$100"
/>
<Product
img="https://ng.jumia.is/unsafe/fit-in/300x300/filters:fill(white)/product/06/4410121/1.jpg?4437"
name="Aomei"
desc="Men's Trend Casual Sports Shoe"
price="$40"
/>
```

## destructuring props in react

there are many ways for destructuring props in react js we will explore only few usefull methods thats easy to understand/deal with.

## author

errors are expected if you find one report it to the [author](https://twitter.com/engsiraj_).
